Steps I Took To Create Tic-Tac-Toe:
1. Follow the required set-up in the assignment including cloning the given repository into WSL and then
opening it in WSL through VSCode to be able to edit all the required files. I am skipping details here as based
on the instructions I am only logging about making the tic-tac-toe, but regardless I want to give a quick overview
of my setup. Also, every few steps I am staging and committing with git. Also, I sort of switched from I to you
halfway through because it kind of felt weird saying I when it is instructional, anyways it would be too much
work to change.
2. I deleted everything from the given App.jsx file except the imports as I thought I might need them and added
a declaration for a function Square that returned a button with the text "X", which displayed on the page as a
small box with an X in the top left.
2. Then I duplicated the button in the return 9 times and had to add a wrapper to make sure that only one thing
is returned. This displayed nine boxes with X's in them, but they were in a line along the top left.
3. To make it three separate rows, I put three boxes each into three div classes with the class name board-row
so it actually displayed as a board like we wanted, and I renamed the function to Board. Also, I changed the X
in the boxes to be the box index 1-9. So it looks like a 3x3 with 1-9 going sequentially.
4. I changed all the previous buttons into Square components with a prop for value by putting {value} into
the declaration for Square and the text inside the button. Also, you have to change the Squares on the
board to declare value="something". This displays the same as the previous step.
5. I added a function handleClick into Square and then inside the button that square returns had it run
handleClick when the button is clicked. Then I imported useState so that I could use it with a value and setValue
to keep track of the value what should be shown on the button. Inside the handleClick you should use setValue.
Also, this means you need to remove the prop value from the Squares in Board. This will display the 3x3 grid that
is blank and if you click a square it will fill with an X.
6. Now we want to have Board handle the state of all of the squares. The first part is to remove almost everything
from Square except a prop for value and a prop for click behavior, and then put the click behavior prop in the
button onOnclick and the value in the button. Then you need to change board to have a useState with an array
of nine null elements. Then create a handle click method with a parameter i so that you can change the state
of any of the elements of the array. Then pass the correct value and handleClick method to each square using
the right index, and make sure to use an arrow function to call handleClick(i). This displays the exact same
thing as the last step.
7. In order to alternate between X and O for the game, we need to add a useState for a bool into board and check
the value everytime the click is handled. We also then need to flip that bool at the end of every click call.
And finally, you need to check the value of a Square before handling click as if it already has a value, you
don't want to change it, so return early if it has a value. This will display a 3x3 grid where clicking once
will have an X, then an O, and so on, and you can't override the clicks.
8. Now we want to be able to check if the game has been won, and if so, stop the game and show a screen
the shows it. First we need to create a function to check if it has been won, you can do this by creating
a 2D array of winning combination indexes and checking if all three of the values the squares array are the same
and that they are not null, and if so, return X or O based on whats in the square. We can add this function into
the click handling in Board as part of the early return with if squares isn't null as if the game is won we don't
want more clicking. Also, we want to display a status of the next move, or if the game is won, show who won.
To do that we add a const variable based on if the game is won and set the status based on if the game is won
and if not, who is up next. Now we have the working 3x3 grid from before but with a status line above it that
alternates between saying X and O, and if someone wins, it will display the correct winner.
9. Now we want to add a game component and take the state features from board and put them into game. We first
add the given Game code that uses divs so have a board and an empty ordered list of game info, and make game
the default function. Then add the same X/O flip from board but then add a history as an array of nine element
arrays that are all null. Also add a current square that is the last element of history. Create a handle play
function and pass the X/O flip state, the current squares, and the handle play into board as props. You will
need to edit board to take those three props. With those props you just need to use the prop for handle play
instead of the two lines setting squares and the X/O flip in board's handle click. Finally, you need to make
handle play set history and the X/O flip. This will look the exact same as the last step.
10. Now we want to handle past moves. We make an empty jump funtion for later and then use a map to create
list item buttons that will call jump on click and display either go to move _ or go to game start if move
is 0. This displays the list but the buttons don't work and we get an error as the list items don't have a
key prop.
11. Now we need to fix this problem with keys by setting the key with the move prop. This will display the
same as before but now with no error.
12. Now we want to get jump to work. First make Game have a save state for the current move defaulted to 0
and in the jump function give it a parameter next move and jump to that move and change the X/O flip to be
based on whether next move is even or odd. Also, update handle play so that there is a next history which is
the history from the begininning to current plus the new move and then set the history and current move. Also,
make Game show the currently selected move instead of the final move. This will display the same as before
except the history button functionality actually works and shows the baord at that point. If you go back in
in time a new move will override any of the "future" moves.
13. As a final step, we change the X/O flip from a bool to depending on whether move is even or odd to not
redundantly store both of them in state. The display will be the same as the last step.